Story Recapped here. Today, I'm
going to explain a horror, sci-fi,
thriller film called "Land of the Dead."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
A long time ago, a catastrophe wiped
out much of human civilization.
For some reason, the recently deceased had come
back to life and taken the lives of the living.
After a few years, zombies are everywhere in
a small town, and they seem to remember their
lives before they die. Some zombies attempt
to play instruments in a town square. As if
they're on a date, a teenage boy zombie holds
hands with a female teen zombie, passing by a
gas station where the zombie attendant hears
a bell indicating that someone is present.
Upon hearing a bell, Big Daddy,
presumed to be a gas boy before,
steps out and prepares to fill a car with
gas, but he realizes that there's no car.
At the same time, Riley and his new rookie
are watching Big Daddy through binoculars
from a distance. Riley notices that the
zombies are becoming more intelligent
as he sees Big Daddy signaling others.
Riley is part of a group that travels
to small towns to collect supplies for
people in the last known human city.
They head back to their headquarters in
preparation for retrieving supplies.
At the post, Riley and the rookie run into Cholo,
who also shares Riley's job. Riley warns Cholo
that the zombies are thinking and that they should
be cautious when entering the town. However, Cholo
dismisses Riley's warning and mocks them before
leaving. Riley's last night out is approaching,
and he doesn't want anyone to die. Cholo also
reveals that this is his last night out.
The night out begins. Simultaneously,
the motley crew of humans piles into
their jeeps and motorcycles and
heads into their designations.
While Pretty Boy, the female operator,
lets off some fireworks over the city,
causing all zombies to look up at the sky.
As their eyes are fixed on the lights,
the crews can move and shoot freely throughout
the town without zombies noticing them.
However, Big Daddy is the only zombie
who doesn't look at the fireworks.
Big daddy observes the guns and tries to persuade
his undead companions to flee, but they refuse.
He grabs one zombie, trying to save him,
but a machine gun blows its head off.
Still holding the zombie's head, he notices that
it's still looking at the fireworks. To put it out
of its misery, he drops the face and stomps on it,
crushing its brains. Big Daddy screams with rage.
Meanwhile, Riley supervises
everyone over communications.
While Riley and his mentally challenged friend
Charlie are heading to get medical supplies,
a zombie tries to attack them. Fortunately,
Riley notices and shoots it down. Suddenly,
the fireworks are gone. The zombies are back
to their senses and become aware of the humans.
Riley commands everyone to return to their
station. However, Cholo tells Riley that he
has to make one more stop at a store
where Cholo plans to steal alcohol.
Afterward, Pretty Boy summons the courage
to take their bus, the Dead Reckoning,
into the town to distract the zombies enough
for everyone to return to the station. Dead
Reckoning is essentially a bus, train, and tank
all rolled in one and is armed with metal gears,
machine guns, rockets, and explosives. The truck
successfully terminates most of the zombies.
On the other hand, Cholo and his friends arrive
at the alcohol store. They carefully enter the
shop and secure the place. Once clear, Cholo looks
for high-quality alcohol, which leads him into the
champagne section. Upon opening the refrigerator,
a zombie falls on him and tries to bite him.
Cholo pulls his spear gun from his leg
and blasts the zombie's brains out.
He takes the champagne and heads into
the counter to get a box of cigarettes.
Some cigarettes fall off the counter. While the
rookie reaches for cigarettes, a security guard
zombie bites a chunk out of the rookie's hand.
The rookie screams in agony and staggers out
the door. Riley and Charlie arrive at the store
to check what's going on. Riley immediately runs
toward the bitten rookie, but Cholo tells him to
step back because he intends to shoot the rookie.
While Cholo and Riley argue, the rookie snatches
Riley's pistol and blows his own brains out.
Later that night, the crew is heading back
to the station. Unbothered by the zombies,
they playfully cross the horde of zombies while
teasing them. Big Daddy tries to grab one of the
bikers before they leave, but he accidentally
grabs his machine gun instead. He doesn't know
what to do with it, so he slings it over his
shoulder and begins walking towards the station.
The following day, Cholo and his friends happen
to see the T.V. commercial for Fiddler's Green,
an upper-class community on a hill overlooking
the city that has its own mall, bank,
and restaurants with waiters dressed in tuxedos.
Riley and Charlie come, still upset about what
happened the night before. Riley confronts Cholo,
telling him to give the rookie some respect,
seeing that he still celebrates with his friends,
drinking the alcohol they stolen. He also reminds
Cholo of his responsibilities, but Cholo tells
him he aspires to be in Fiddler's Green.
Later that day, Riley and Charlie head into the
city, where there is strict security surrounding
Fiddler's Green. The wealthy reside there, while
the rest of the population are on the streets
below. The exclusive community is protected
by electrified fences and soldiers on patrol.
A stray zombie tries to climb the wall and is
immediately electrocuted and shot to pieces.
It is also surrounded by water, and the only way
to get into the city is through a bridge. Riley
visits an old man who he used to work with in the
slums below Fiddler's Green. He hands antibiotics
to the old man's son as the boy looks sick and
cold. He then leaves and heads into a car shop,
where he expects to get a car that he would use to
drive away to a place with fewer people living in
peace. He’s surprised to see his car is gone. He
rushes out to find the man who worked on the car.
At the same time, Cholo also heads into Fiddler's
Green, confident that the owner and manager,
Mr. Kaufman, will let him in. He is able to pass
through security and walks through Fiddler's
Green's lavish mall, eventually arriving on
the top floor at Mr. Kaufman's office. He
casually greets him as he pours some champagne
into glasses and gives one to Mr. Kaufman.
Cholo tells him that he will retire with all the
money that Mr. Kaufman owes him for doing filthy
business for him. Kaufman, however, informs him
that the space is limited in Fiddler's Green,
and only certain people are allowed to stay there.
Cholo is upset as Mr. Kaufman belittles him,
threatening to expose his crime. Kaufman calms him
down as he secretly calls the security officer to
send Cholo away. As Cholo and the officer leave
the office, the officer tries to shoot Cholo, but
Cholo outsmarts him and knocks the officer down
instead. He immediately leaves Fiddler's Green.
Later that day, Riley and Charlie arrive in an
underground compound filled with music
and gambling in search of the man.
They come across several booths where people
can interact with zombies, such as a photobooth,
paintball and there's even an arena where
two zombies fight, and people bet on them.
Finally, Riley spots the man he’s looking for:
Chihuahua, a midget man who promised him a car.
He grabs him and confronts him about his
car, but Chihuahua says he'll find it soon.
Riley puts him down, and the midget runs away
and signals his guards to keep an eye on Riley.
Meanwhile, the betting begins. To make the
zombies fight, they throw in a woman named Slack.
As she desperately tries to keep the zombies
off, the crowd cheers. Riley notices what's going
on and shoots the two zombies to save the poor
girl, causing the crowd to panic and rush out.
Aiming for Charlie, the midget mistakenly
gun-down an innocent man while Riley takes
his chance to kill him. The bullet goes straight
into him, but he is wearing a bullet-proof suit.
Chihuahua angrily gets up as Riley ruined his
purple suit, so when he sees an opportunity to
shoot him, he fires his gun. Fortunately, Slack
spots the midget and saves Riley by kicking him
to the ground, but the bullet grazes her arm.
Charlie watches the midget trying to escape and
calmly aims his gun before firing a shot, hitting
Chihuahua dead on the head. The police arrive and
demand to know what is going on. With the three
of them left alone, the police arrest them.
On the other hand, the zombies encounter a wooden
gate. Big Daddy sees the butcher zombie's meat
cleaver and tells him to hit the gate. The
butcher zombie repeatedly hits it until Big
Daddy can see through. A zombie appears in front
of the hole and notices they are upside down.
More zombies hang upside down with
target signs wrapped around their bodies.
Big Daddy screams in rage as
he sees the zombies struggling.
Riley, Charlie, and Slack have been arrested and
detained. Charlie questions Slack as to why she
was placed in the cage with the zombies. She tells
him that she wanted to be a soldier, but someone
thought she could have been a better call girl,
so she ended up on the streets. Riley informs her
that she failed to respond to Charlie's question.
Slack then tells them that Kaufman is in charge
of everything at Fiddler's Green, from betting to
streetwalking. She attempted to assist some people
who Kaufman did not regard favorably, and as a
result, she was sentenced to the cage fight. Slack
inquires about Riley's story, and he responds
that nothing terrible has happened to him.
She claims that the zombies affected
everyone, which is awful. Riley isn't
the type to engage in conversation, so Slack
takes a stimulant from her boot and smokes it.
Afterward, Cholo and his friends decide to
steal the Dead Reckoning and hold Fiddler's
Green for ransom. Cholo tries to pass off an old
permit to the soldier, but he doesn't buy it.
When Cholo is about to grab his gun,
he hears gunfire. Cholo takes his gun,
wondering what it is, but the soldier says that
there's nothing to worry about since the
gun fired comes from the target practice.
At the same time, two soldiers are playing around
as they randomly shoot the giant inflatable
person. The shooter says that he would shoot
better if the other soldier would stop bothering
him, which confuses the other soldier since
he's doing nothing. He then turns the light
behind them and searches the grounds. There's
no one there, but suddenly Big Daddy appears
and screams at them. Cholo hears the scream
and asks if they're practicing yelling too.
Big Daddy suddenly appears with the slew of
zombies and knocks over a non-electrical gate.
Soldiers are blasting the zombies, but there are
too many of them. They destroy the
fence and tear the soldiers apart.
Cholo and his companions successfully take the
Dead Reckoning. When Big Daddy sees the vehicle,
he recalls what it did to the other zombies
and grips his machine gun tightly in his hand.
It starts firing at the ground. He then
raises it and fires at Dead Reckoning.
He hits it, but some of his shots go
astray, causing a propane tank to explode,
accidentally setting a zombie on fire. Seeing
the zombie suffering, Big Daddy kills it,
putting it out of its misery. Big Daddy
then notices Fiddler's Green Tower across
the lake and joins the other zombies
in making their way towards the lake.
Once safe, Cholo reaches out to Kaufman, who
is surprised to see that Cholo is still alive.
Cholo offers Kaufman a deal to give
him and his crew five million dollars,
or he will use Dead Reckoning to blow up Fiddler's
Green. Cholo wants the funds to be delivered to
the port by midnight. Feeling distressed, Kaufman
orders the police to bring Riley into his office.
When Riley arrives, Kaufman informs him
about Cholo, and orders Riley to kill Cholo.
In return, he gets to have his vehicle back
and enough weapons to last him a long time.
Riley accepts the deal and demands the assistance
of his friends in completing this mission.
Kaufman seems fine with it. When Riley goes
back, the police immediately release them.
Riley, Slack, and Charlie are released from
prison and receive weapons from the army. A
soldier offers Charlie a machine gun, but Charlie
prefers his rifle. Slack gladly accepts the
machine gun instead. Kaufman is wary of Riley and
his friends, so he sends three soldiers with them;
a tough guy, Manolete, a wisecracking female
soldier, Motown, and a hulking soldier, Pillsbury.
They later proceed to the army post
in the hopes of obtaining the vehicle,
but they find it engulfed in flames and
in ruins. They split into two groups,
where Riley and Manolete go off on their own
to look for keys for a jeep. While Charlie
and the rest of the group gather around a jeep.
Riley and Manolete explore a dark supply bunk.
They hear a dripping sound, and when they look
around, they find a couple of zombies munching
bodies. They search further. Manolete is
ready to fire his machine gun at them,
but Riley advises him to use their
handguns, blasting some zombies away.
The other team decides to dispatch a jeep outside.
Charlie suddenly licks his rifle as he is aiming
at something nearby. He takes aim at Slack with
the rifle. She panics and draws her machine gun,
but Charlie is actually aiming at a zombie
behind her. They continue to work around the
jeep when suddenly, Slack pulls the trigger on her
machine gun and aims it in Charlie's direction,
but she repays the favor
by killing a zombie behind
him. However, the shot was so close to Charlie
that it caused his ear to slightly bleed.
At the jeep, Riley and Manolete meet up with the
rest of the team. Once everyone is in the jeep,
a decapitated zombie approaches Manolete and
startles him. However, the zombie's head is
not totally decapitated, but it hangs behind
his back. The zombie screams and snaps. He
thrusts his head forward and bites Manolete’s arm.
Pillsbury dispatches the zombie, and they flee.
On their way, Riley discloses that
a homing device he placed in the
center of Dead Reckoning allows him to
track it, so he knows where Cholo is.
Slack asks Riley about how long Manolete
has before he turns into a zombie,
prompting him to share his story about his
brother who turned in less than an hour, and
Riley had no choice but to kill him. Slack gazes
at him and then turns around to kill Manolete.
A little while later, Riley tells Slack, who
is driving the jeep, to pull over right away.
She does, and Charlie is now holding Pillsbury and
Motown hostage with a gun. Riley understands that
Kaufman will most likely break their agreement
and has probably paid the three soldiers to
assassinate him and his companions once they
locate Dead Reckoning. Riley threatens the two
frightened soldiers, who immediately surrender.
They keep driving to find Dead Reckoning.
In the meantime, Mouse informs Cholo
that the money has not arrived.
He then shoots down a zombie who attempted to
enter the boathouse. When he examines the body,
he is attacked by some
zombies, and they devour him.
Big Daddy and the zombies are at the lake, staring
at the water. Big Daddy leads by jumping into the
water, and the zombies follow him. They manage
to cross the lake by walking underwater. Big
Daddy slowly rises from the water as more and more
zombies appear, preparing to attack the humans.
Once they arrive in the city, zombies attack
two women who are making out. A soldier tries
throwing a grenade, but the Butcher zombie
cuts off the soldier's hand , causing the
soldiers to fall over the grenade. It then
detonates, severing the soldier in half.
On the other hand, the athlete zombie snags a
rifle from a terrified soldier. She has no idea
what to do with it, which allows the soldier to
reach for his backup weapon. Big Daddy comes over
and demonstrates how to pull the trigger.
He switches the machine gun's target from
the ground to the soldier's crotch, then his
belly, and finally his upper body. The athlete
zombie reluctantly abandons her softball bat
in favor of the rifle, which she fires at
more humans until she runs out of ammo. The
instrumental zombie reluctantly submits his
tambourine in exchange for a crowbar, which he
intends to use as a weapon against the humans.
At the same time, Riley and his companions
finally locate the Dead Reckoning. Pillsbury
knocks Motown out, earning Riley's trust. While
Pillsbury and Slack hide in the nearby bushes,
Riley and Charlie head to Dead Reckoning alone.
Riley and Charlie eventually talk their way into
the vehicle, but Cholo and his men hold them at
gunpoint. Cholo draws his spear gun and places
it beneath Riley's chin as Pretty Boy prepares
to launch a rocket attack on Fiddler's Green.
Riley is protesting because the destruction will
kill many innocent people in the slums below.
Slack recognizes that they are
in danger and prepares to fire.
Meanwhile, Motown regains his
consciousness, grabs a gun, and
sprints over the car. A zombie attacks her, biting
and ripping a chunk out of her neck. Still, she
manages to locate Cholo, and
prepares to shoot him. However,
Riley sees her from a distance, kicking
Cholo out of the Dead Reckoning to save him.
Finally, Riley gives Cholo and Foxy
some guns and allows them to leave.
Pretty Boy turns Dead Reckoning towards the city
to save the people, and Riley takes over Cholo's
crew. When Cholo and Foxy begin to walk away,
they come across a zombie biting Cholo's arm.
Cholo refuses to be shut down,
as he plans to do something else.
He returns to the city's outskirts
to take revenge against Kaufman.
On the other hand, Kaufman notices and hears
explosions in the streets below and believes
Dead Reckoning has opened fire on the city.
However, Riley informs him that it isn't Cholo,
but the zombies. Kaufman then grabs a
couple of bags with cash and prepares to
leave. There were no zombies in sight, so Kaufman
and his servant made their way down to the mall.
The zombies and Big Daddy have arrived
at the mall's entrance. Trying to avoid
certain death, the shoppers trample
each other. Big daddy finds Kaufman,
who shoots him but misses his head and
hits him in the leg and shoulder instead.
Big Daddy yells as he pursues
Kaufman, who heads to the parking lot.
As Kaufman's servant opens the garage door,
Big Daddy sneaks up on the car while he's gone
and begins smashing it with his bare hands.
When the servant notices the zombie, he runs
away with the keys to the vehicle. When Big
Daddy sees a gas nozzle nearby, he begins pouring
gasoline all over the car before walking away.
Kaufman leaves his vehicle and searches the area
for Big Daddy. He takes a spare set of car keys
from his bag and prepares to drive away alone.
Cholo, on the other hand, emerges from the shadows
with his spear gun. He misses Kaufman and is shot
in the chest instead, but he doesn't fall. Kaufman
fires more bullets into his leg until Cholo
gradually drops to the ground. Cholo gets back
up and attacks Kaufman. Cholo is now a zombie, and
Kaufman is out of bullets. Before Cholo can tear
out his throat, Big Daddy returns with a propane
tank on fire. He tosses it into the car, which
explodes, killing Cholo and Kaufman, with his
money all over the place. Big Daddy seems content.
When Dead Reckoning finally arrives in the
city, they discover only zombies feasting on
humans. There appear to be no survivors in the
town. Riley instructs Charlie and Pretty Boy to
launch rockets at the zombies. Riley notices that
no one is moving when the smoke clears. However,
people gradually emerge and approach them
and it turns out some people survive.
They intend to rebuild the city
progressively but steadily.
Riley is still planning to travel to the North.
His friends want to join him and intend to follow
Riley. Through binoculars, Riley sees Big Daddy,
who is leading his zombies out of the city.
However, he decides not to kill him because
the zombies, like Riley and his friends,
are only looking for a place to call home.
In Dead Reckoning, Riley and his crew head
to North and light fireworks in the
sky as they won't need them anymore.
This story highlights the distinction between
three social classes fenced off from each other in
an explosive apocalyptic environment. First is the
exploitative elite class, as represented by those
that live in Fiddler's Green. Then, the oppressed
class, those that live in the slums. And finally,
the disorganized class, composing zombies, who
begin to assert their own authority in the world.